
=== Page 1 ===
Hivweander Shenzhen Hiwonder Technology Co,Ltd
1. Getting Started Guide

After getting Jetson Orin Nano board, you can first review Chapter 2&
Chapter 3 to set up the development environment for Jetson Orin Nano board.
After that, selectively choose chapters for further study. Below will outline the

content of each chapter:

In “2. Jetson Orin Nano Configuration’, the detailed instructions on how
to flash the image is provided. If you are using the official initial image provided
by NAVDIA, you can use “SDK Manager Tool” to flash it. Since Jetson Orin
Nano board comes pre-installed with JetPack, there is no need to flash it again
and only the system image needs to be flashed. Additionally, you can also use
the “SD card+Reader” or “solid-state drive (SSD)+hard drive enclosure”

methods to flash the image we provide.

After installing the system image, power on Jetson Orin Nano and
configure the network. You can connect via SSH for remote access and file
transfer, or use remote desktop software for visual operations. Additionally, this
chapter provides instructions on using USB drives, setting up automatic

mounting at startup, and backing up and expanding the NVMe system.
4. Basic Programming Course:

This section focuses on the fundamentals of Python programming.
5. Hardware Control Course:

This chapter covers the basic pf hardware control for Jetson Orin Nano,

including the use of CPIO, UART, and I2C.
6. OpenCV Computer Vision Course:

This chapter focuses on the fundamentals of OpenCV, including basic learning

and applications.



=== Page 2 ===
Hivweander Shenzhen Hiwonder Technology Co,Ltd

7. Al Entry-level Course:

This chapter includes instructions for camera installation and usage, as well as

an introduction to programs based on Mediapipe.
8. Al Advanced Course:

This chapter covers the installation and testing of TensorFlow and PyTorch,
and the application of YOLOvS, including training object detection models and

using TensorRT to accelerate your YOLOv5 model.
9. ROS1 Basics Course:

This chapter includes the installation of ROS1 and basic examples of ROS1

usage.
10. ROS2 Basics Course

This chapter includes the installation of ROS2 and basic examples of ROS2

usage.


